Adds migration instructions for userSignupFields (#1795)
wasp-lang/wasp: web/docs/migrate-from-0-11-to-0-12.md

You can follow these steps to migrate to the new auth system (assuming you already migrated the project structure to 0.12, as described [above](#migrating-your-project-to-the-new-structure)):

> 1. If you used `getUserFieldsFn` and/or `additionalSignupFields`, you will need to migrate them to the new `userSignupFields` field.
> 
>   In Wasp 0.11.X, you could define a `getUserFieldsFn` to specify extra fields that would get saved to the `User` when using Google or GitHub to sign up.
>     
>   You could also define `additionalSignupFields` to specify extra fields for the Email or Username & Password signup process.
> 
>   In 0.12.X, we unified these two concepts into the `userSignupFields` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Migrate `getUserFields` and/or `additionalSignupFields` (in the `main.wasp` file) to the new `userSignupFields` field.**  
  If you are not using them, you can skip this step.

  In Wasp 0.11.X, you could define a `getUserFieldsFn` to specify extra fields that would get saved to the `User` when using Google or GitHub to sign up.
  You could also define `additionalSignupFields` to specify extra fields for the Email or Username & Password signup process.
  In 0.12.X, we unified these two concepts into the `userSignupFields` field.
```

Author: Might I suggest we use less sentences in parentheses: for me it makes me shift focus a lot. I have a feeling that there are multiple different streams of thought then.

Using plain sentences or multiple sentences feels better to me:

> **Migrate `getUserFields` and/or `additionalSignupFields` (in the `main.wasp` file) to the new `userSignupFields` field.**  

could become

> **Migrate `getUserFields` and/or `additionalSignupFields` in the `main.wasp` file to the new `userSignupFields` field.**  

or 

> **Migrate `getUserFields` and/or `additionalSignupFields` to the new `userSignupFields` field.** 

If it's obvious from the context, maybe, I'm not sure.

Reviewer: We should mention `main.wasp` though, they can't know that. But I am ok with the option where it is not in parenthesses, I get what you mean with breaking the flow.

So you want to go with the second thing then:

Migrate getUserFields and/or additionalSignupFields in the main.wasp file to the new userSignupFields field.

  <details>
  <summary>Migration for <EmailPill /> and <UsernameAndPasswordPill /></summary>

    First, move the value of `auth.signup.additionalFields` to `auth.methods.{method}.userSignupFields` in the `main.wasp` file.
      
    `{method}` depends on the auth method you are using. For example, if you are using the email auth method, you should move the `auth.signup.additionalFields` to `auth.methods.email.userSignupFields`.
    

>     To finish, update the implementation to use the `defineUserSignupFields` from `wasp/server/auth` instead of `defineAdditionalSignupFields` from `@wasp/auth/index.js` (this should have been automatically done by the migration script).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To finish, update the JS/TS implementation to use the `defineUserSignupFields` from `wasp/server/auth` instead of `defineAdditionalSignupFields` from `@wasp/auth/index.js`.
```

It is not done by the script currently, and maybe it is best for them to do it manually, just to be sure all is making sense, so I just removed this part about the migration script.

        },
        onAuthFailedRedirectTo: "/login",
      },
    }
    ```

    ```ts title="src/server/auth/signup.ts"
    // highlight-next-line
    import { defineUserSignupFields } from 'wasp/server/auth'

    // highlight-next-line
    export const fields = defineUserSignupFields({
      address: async (data) => {
        const address = data.address
        if (typeof address !== 'string') {
          throw new Error('Address is required')
        }
        if (address.length < 5) {
          throw new Error('Address must be at least 5 characters long')
        }
        return address
      },
    })
    ```

    Read more about the `userSignupFields` function [here](/auth/overview.md#1-defining-extra-fields).

    </TabItem>
    </Tabs>

  </details>

  <details>
  <summary>Migration for <GithubPill /> and <GooglePill /></summary>

    First, move the value of `auth.methods.{method}.getUserFieldsFn` to `auth.methods.{method}.userSignupFields` in the `main.wasp` file.
      
    `{method}` depends on the auth method you are using. For example, if you are using Google auth, you should move the `auth.methods.google.getUserFieldsFn` to `auth.methods.google.userSignupFields`.

>     To finish, update the implementation to use the `defineUserSignupFields` from `wasp/server/auth` and modify the code to return the fields in the format that `defineUserSignupFields` expects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To finish, update the JS/TS implementation to use the `defineUserSignupFields` from `wasp/server/auth` and modify the code to return the fields in the format that `defineUserSignupFields` expects.
```

        if (!data.profile || !data.profile.displayName) {
          throw new Error('Display name is not available')
        }
        return data.profile.displayName
      },
    })
    // highlight-end
    ```

    Read more about the `userSignupFields` function [here](/auth/overview.md#1-defining-extra-fields).

    </TabItem>
    </Tabs>

  </details>

1. Ensure your **local development database is running**.
1. **Do the schema migration** (create the new auth tables in the database) by running:
   ```bash
   wasp db migrate-dev
   ```
You should see the new `Auth`, `AuthIdentity` and `Session` tables in your database. You can use the `wasp db studio` command to open the database in a GUI and verify the tables are there. At the moment, they will be empty.
1. **Do the data migration** (move existing users from the old auth system to the new one by filling the new auth tables in the database with their data):

   1. **Implement your data migration function(s)** in e.g. `src/migrateToNewAuth.ts`.

      Below we prepared [examples of migration functions](#example-data-migration-functions) for each of the auth methods, for you to use as a starting point.

>       They should be fine to use as-is, meaning you can just copy them and they are likely to work out of the box for typical use cases, but you can also modify them to your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      They should be fine to use as-is, meaning you can just copy them and they are likely to work out of the box for typical use cases, but you can also modify them to your needs (and should do so if needed).
```

Author: > No other part of this sentence indicates that they might actually need to modify them

The sentence says "work out of the box for typical use cases, but you can also modify them to your needs"

The text in the parentheses felt redundant since we already said that :)

Author: > But on the other hand, what does that extra text hurt? 

The users will have to parse every extra bit of text. We have a note about that in the writing guide, to keep things relatively low cognitive effort. 

But in this case, the sentence feels simply redundant to me since we already said they can modify them to suit their needs.

>       You will want to have one function per each auth method that you use in your app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      You will want to end up with having one function per each auth method that you use in your app.
```

Author: This bit felt redundant, so I've removed it for better reading flow. It's probably subjective either way.

Reviewer: yeah, the last one is better.
We are communicating here what is the expected end result, so I thought it is valuable to keep communicating this.

I feel like in situations like this, when it is not clear what is better, it doesn't hear to go with the option that provides a bit extra info to reader, even if a bit redundant, if that info is short and not in collision with the rest of the text. it won't hurt, and it can help.

1. **Update your JS/TS code** to work correctly with the new auth.

  You should use the new auth helper functions to get the `email` or `username` from a user object. For example, `user.username` won't work anymore, now you need to do `getUsername(user)`. Read more about the helpers in the [Auth Entities - Accessing the Auth Fields](auth/entities#accessing-the-auth-fields) section. The helpers you are most likely to use are the `getEmail` and `getUsername` helpers.

> 1. Finally, **check that your app now fully works as it worked before**. If all the above steps were done correctly, everything should be working now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Finally, **check that your app now fully works as it worked before**. If all the above steps were done correctly, everything should be working now 🎉!
```

Author: In our docs writing guide we discourage the use of emojis: https://github.com/wasp-lang/wasp/blob/main/web/docs/writingguide.md#grammar

Reviewer: I know we do. That said, we are celebrating victory here, it is a big moment, they migrated the script, and emoji makes that clear, plus is a visual anchor for a special moment.

We are trying to not use emojis to not clutter the text and to keep things professional, but banishing every single usage of emoji ever is taking the rule to the absurd.

Author: I believe what we wrote in the guide makes sense and it's not taking it to the absurd. 

> Don't use emojis (except in discussions). Emojis are cute and friendly, but they can be a distraction in documentation. Some emojis even convey different meanings in different cultures. They also make the documentation seem unprofessional and of lower quality.

Reviewer 2: Martin, rules :book: are the only thing separating us :people_holding_hands: from animals :wolf:

      We wrote instructions on how to do it for **Fly.io** deployments here: https://github.com/wasp-lang/wasp/issues/1464 . The instructions should be similar for other deployment providers: setting up some sort of an SSH tunnel from your local machine to the production database and running your data migrations functions locally (using `wasp db seed`) with `DATABASE_URL` pointing to the production database.

>     Your deployed app should be working normally now, with the new auth system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Your deployed app should be working normally now, with the new auth system 🎉!
```

Reviewer: commented above

  The database migrations will automatically run on successful deployment of the server and delete the now redundant auth-related `User` columns from the database.

>   Your app is now fully migrated to the new auth system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Your app is now fully migrated to the new auth system 🎉!
```

Author: In our docs writing guide we discourage the use of emojis: https://github.com/wasp-lang/wasp/blob/main/web/docs/writingguide.md#grammar

as long as you keep all the source files in the `src/` directory.

This section is optional, but if you didn't like the server/client

> separation, now's the perfect time to change it.

Author: I think we shouldn't use that much exclamation marks all the time. We also have a point about that in our writing guide: https://github.com/wasp-lang/wasp/blob/main/web/docs/writingguide.md#grammar

> separation, now's the perfect time to change it.

Reviewer: Again, those are good rules, but let's not be overly strict with them, it kills the vibe. They are guidelines, not the law. Sentence here is quite excited: "Now's the perfect time" -> it is almost weird to not finish this with exclamation mark. And it is not like we have a ton of exclamation marks around so that we are using them all the time.

> separation, now's the perfect time to change it.

Author: Now that I'm rereading it, I would go even more neutral and say it's a good time to change it instead of perfect 😂

We decided to base our Writing guide on Vue's since we recognized them as an experienced bunch that had a lot of community input about their docs and they employ doc writers which know what they are doing.

I like the cheerful attitude in your written communication generally, but here I would go for more neutral tone 🤷🏻‍♂️
